everyone in the history of humanity has
had a different set of circumstances a
different psyche different stats
different circumstances they're playing
their own like every other human being
is playing their own unique campaign and
your campaign is different your villain
at the end of it is different your stats
are different your skills are different
your class is different so play your RPG
instead of trying to play someone else's
helen has has reached what most people
in the last century would call call
successful a family and children doesn't
that ease her burden my own situation so
let's start with that question doesn't
that ease her burden no right so like
the whole thing like the whole point
behind helen is on paper she's very
successful but she still feels like a
failure
and that's like that's the whole point
like our emotions and parts of our being
don't respond to logic right they just
that's not how it works you have people
who like Devin for example who's like
plagued with inadequacy even though as I
understand he's very successful I see
that all the time
I see like invent investment bankers in
my office that make you know over a
million dollars a year and they still
feel like failures like it's bizarre
that human beings don't respond to logic
if you guys responded to logic then like
you would like you're able to figure out
what you're supposed to do and then
you're logically you know what you
should do and then like you would do it
but that's not I human beings work so
being successful doesn't actually do
anything to assuage our feel at fear of
failure or feeling of failure
and my own situation is how to become
successful or face failure without the
traditional route a family career is
that possible
absolutely absolutely it's possible the
first thing you need to understand is
that you're not walking a traditional
route which is fine so then you've got
to figure out your untraditional route
so let me be really clear on this like
when I said it was my karma to fail like
that was my untraditional route I'm a
psychiatrist and I'm streaming on Twitch
instead of talking to patients in my
office
that's untraditional but that's what the
world needs the world doesn't need an
additional psychiatrist who's gonna talk
to like you know 20 patients a week and
talk to them about depression or anxiety
what the world needs right now is
someone to talk to people on Twitch
because you guys are so and it's not
your fault but like so much of the world
is divorced from mental health resources
and the old model of mental health is
just not working like Helen has been
looking for a therapist for weeks or
months and she can't find what like
something needs to change and so what I
want you guys to recognize is that
you're untraditional path is like is is
exactly where you need to be
if I had not failed like let's say I had
a 4.0 GPA and I applied to medical
school and I got in I would not have
been a psychiatrist I probably would
have done internal medicine in oncology
like the reason I became a psychiatrist
is because I dealt with all my own
and then that makes me the person that I
am today and allows me to help gamers
what you guys need to understand is cut
yourself a break and recognize that this
is part of your path and the more that
you accept that your path is like is
gonna be your own like what is a
traditional path that's just a
comparison to other people but that's
stupid because everyone in the history
of humanity has had a different set of
circumstances a different psyche
different stats different circumstances
they're playing their own like every
other human being is playing their own
unique campaign and your campaign is
different your villain at the end of it
is different your stats are different
your skills are different your class is
different so play your RPG instead of
trying to play someone else's and that
starts by like understanding that okay
I'm not on a traditional path fine
then start from where you are instead of
where you should be or where other
people have been
that's the first step and it's
absolutely possible I'd say the reason
that you feel like it's impossible is
because you're trying to live someone
else's life you're looking at a system
of success you're looking at a script
for success and you're saying that's not
working for me I can't achieve that well
damn right because that's not your life
that's someone else's life
so start playing your own RPG
and see where you get you'd be surprised
[Music]
yes Oh someone's asking is real life a
roguelike absolutely it's some
procedurally generated crap that wasn't
scripted by anyone and it's ugly it's
not like you know level 1 to level 2
level 3 it's like random crap that gets
thrown your way and you have to learn
how to deal with it
you
[Music]
okay
yeah so like dr. Joe Bree says I believe
people who never felt like they belong
to anywhere come to twitch hoping that
they would belong absolutely right so
you live in a day and time where there
is a community for rejects like think
about that that's awesome there is a
place you can go where everyone else is
a reject those are your people and then
the other cool thing for me is that
there is there's literally a platform
that causes all you to coalesce
in one place that I can talk to I don't
have to go and hunt you all down you'll
come here like that's amazing it makes
my job so much easier like it's amazing
the circumstances that we live with in
my roguelike magically this platform
appears where you guys all show up and I
just get to talk to my computer screen
and I hit every single one of you like
how awesome is that now you could look
at me and you could say that this is
this isn't like this is a
non-traditional road to success like
absolutely like thank God because if I
had to sit in my office and just talk to
like individual people talking about
their individual problems all day long
like I would I just couldn't do it
so my personality is also something that
I get bored easily so I can't just be a
regular therapist I have to do something
else so I could have looked at this and
I could have said oh I can't work for 40
hours a week I can only work for 20
hours a week before I start pulling my
hair out and I could say that I'm less
I'm less successful because my
colleagues can sit in an office all day
and I just can't do it I need to be
better I need to be more patient I need
to be able to like sit in the same
chair this chair I can only sit
in that chair for 20 hours a week it's
all I can do and I could have said that
I'm a failure by using someone else's
standard but God gave me twitch right so
that I can come on here and I can talk
to myself I don't even know if you guys
are real or Elle BOTS like I don't even
know
but this works and so take a look at
your life and realize that if you're a
failure it's because you're playing the
wrong game
like you're going onto the golf course
and you're saying like I can't hit a
three-pointer well yeah that's because
you're not playing basketball
like play your own game don't play
someone else's game play your own game
and then like see how far you can go if
you just play your own game accept
yourself for who you are
accept where you are
and then like play that game right with
your stats with your busted-ass main
character who's got like those like like
you picked a lot of perk flaws right
like you know that that gives you
like extra points like you picked a lot
of those you pick like lazy and you
picked like addicted to video games and
you picked like body odor
but the cool thing is somewhere in there
you've got you've got some positive
parts the problem is you're just not
like you've got like plus 30 skill two
like guns but the problem is like you
never use a gun so you're not
recognizing that you're actually amazing
at something but the problem is that
you're trying to live a scripted life so
pick up a gun well don't pick up a gun
that's stupid
I mean don't not literally a gun like I
don't want this to be misinterpreted
but you know like there's something that
you're good at you're just too busy
blaming yourself for not being good at
what other people are good at to even
stop and figure that out
so like think about what you like and
now we're gonna get to another question
so some people have been asking me how
do you find your Dharma your Dharma
means duty or responsibility how do you
find your Dharma by looking by stopping
and thinking like what is it that you
what is it that you like to start there
start start there right like what is it
that you like what is it that you're
interested in
but I want you guys to think about this
for a second
so ten years ago someone I like let's
say hypothetically I was around ten
years ago and I asked someone what do
you what do you like and they said uh
doc I don't like anything except for
video games and like I would say okay
well sucks for you because what you like
which is just playing video
games all day is a non marketable skill
what do you think about that now
right like holy
prize pools in dota 2 are larger than
any professional physical sport
thirty million dollars playing a
video game
the world is changing
and just because the the patterns of old
aren't working like let's even go back
like 10 years okay doc I want to make a
videogame well that's tough because in
order to make a videogame you need to
apply for a job at a major publishing
company and there's this whole pipeline
and it's really hard to like break into
the industry
you guys know like this game axiom verge
have you guys heard of axiom verge or
undertale like think about the world
that you live in axiom verge was made by
one guy game is amazing
undertale made by one dude
right you guys live in a world where
like you don't have to break into an
industry
you don't have to break into anything
the barrier to publication is so low
that you can just make something
you could just make it you can just
write a book and you don't even have to
get a contract from a publisher anymore
you just self publish on Amazon you can
make a video game and just Steam
greenlight
you could just buy a camp like this is
what I did six weeks ago I was like I
want to start streaming on Twitch I'm
tired of seeing people in my office
bought a couple of cameras checked out
Tom's like he's got this great guide on
his website
and then I started streaming so big
dudas asks does it have to be good
you're damn right it has to be good so
you've got to work at it I'm not saying
that you're gonna be successful if you
just half-ass a video game but that's
something that you've got to like that's
something that you've got to do right
that's something you can work at success
isn't easy but you don't have to follow
the traditional model and you can follow
the traditional model too this is where
you start thinking about your career in
terms of okay this is what I really love
to do this is what I care about and then
you look at the array of options for
careers and you pick one that sort of
fits so you could say like so yeah I
don't know if you guys know there's a
there's an author named Brandon
Sanderson so I loved his books he wrote
like Miss Bourne and things like that
and so Brandon Sanderson you guys know
what his job was he was the night
manager at a hotel which is brilliant
because he got paid for being there and
like everyone is asleep at night over
the hotel so he could just write for
like eight hours a day while collecting
a paycheck to pay his bills
and so like that's what I want you guys
to rethink right so you're a failure
fine like how can you make this work
think about it and be yeah thanks for
linking to Tom Tom scream I mean uh
twitch and think about like think about
really what your situation is and like
think about the circumstances of your
life think about the hand that you were
dealt and it takes time and effort to
stop and think about this think about
what's getting in the way think about
the emotions that keep you from saying
like keep you from pursuing your dream
like if you want to write a fiction
novel start writing forget no
not November this is like NaNoWriMo you
guys don't know what the National Novel
Writing Month so a group of people all
over the world sit down and over the
course of 30 days they just write a
novel and they like meet at like
different coffee shops and people's
houses and they just start writing it's
amazing
anyway my rant is complete